[singing voice] Aniplex.
Did you not hear me?
I said withdraw.
I have no business with you,
Assassin.
[Assassin] And did you
not hear me
when I said you had
to force your way through?
If you do not hurry,
your master's life
will surely be lost.
[gasps]
You really shouldn't be
so angry at Assassin, Caster.
[Archer] He is facing Saber,
after all.
I don't know who
that samurai is,
but he is a master swordsman
and able to hold Saber at bay.
Shouldn't you
be complimenting him?
[chuckles]
Surely you're joking.
I can hardly call him a hero
if he could not even stop
the likes of you.
[Caster] That man lacks
the necessary skills
to call himself
a master swordsman.
[Shirou] Saber is here?
[Mashiro Ayano's "Ideal White"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Mashiro singing in Japanese]
[blow lands]
[grunting]
[both grunting]
[grunts]
‐ [scoffs]
‐ [Saber] How can this be?
Weight, power, speed.
I have the upper hand
in every way.
Why can I not break through?
[both grunting]
Very impressive.
I should have removed
your head seven times
but it remains attached
to your body.
It seems western swordplay
is more than flailing about.
[Saber] You're impressive
for a man of such slight build.
If nothing else,
you are a master
of cunning tricks.
Well, now.
You have the edge
in both strength and spirit.
That leaves me only my wiles
with which to defeat you.
[Assassin] But I may know
the length
of your invisible sword now.
[gasps]
[Saber] From just
that brief exchange?
This servant surpasses me
that greatly in sword technique?
Now let us continue.
Show me what you
are really capable of, Saber.
[grunts]
[Saber] Shirou,
hold on.
[Archer] From the way you talk,
it appears to me
that your masters
are actually working together.
[Shirou] Wait, they're allies?
[Archer] Yes.
Assassin stays outside
and guards the gate
while Caster lurks within.
Isn't it obvious that these two
are working in league?
It's not particularly unusual.
For example,
you and Rin
have now joined forces.
‐ [gasps]
‐ [Caster laughs]
How ridiculous.
Me working with that dog,
Assassin,
who's nothing more
to me than my pawn?
[Archer] Your pawn?
[Caster] Yes.
You see, that lowly dog
is here fighting for me,
but is without a master.
What?
[Archer] Caster,
how could you?
You broke the rules.
[chuckles]
What's wrong with a mage
like me summoning a servant
of my own to do my bidding?
So Caster summoned
Assassin herself?
[Shirou] Are you saying
that a summoned servant
summoned another servant?
[Archer] That gatekeeper
out there
who wasn't summoned
by a proper master
is not the true Assassin.
She ignored the rules
and summoned
an Assassin‐class servant
on her own.
She made this her home
and harvests souls
from the people in the city.
She herself doesn't fight
but monitors the battle
using eyes placed around town.
Saber and the other two
knight classes
are resistant to magic.
It's only natural
for a magic user
like yourself to resort
to underhanded tactics.
[giggles]
But you managed to do all this
without your master's consent,
didn't you?
[Caster] And what makes you
say that?
[Archer] Masters are mages.
If one summons
a mage more powerful
than himself,
he would be on guard,
even with command seals.
Given that,
it's difficult
to think that
a master would let you summon
a servant that obeys you.
In which case,
like the simpleton behind me‐‐
‐ [gasps]
‐ I imagine you've made him
into nothing more
than a useful puppet.
[grunts]
It will be a simple matter
to win the Holy Grail War.
My considerable efforts
are being directed
at what will come after
the war is won.
[Archer] Oh?
Defeating us is a simple matter,
you say?
Coming from
a witch who slinks around
in the shadows?
[snarls]
[Caster] Yes.
You see,
you cannot so much as scratch me
while I'm inside this place.
For those who call me a witch,
I'll hand them
befitting punishments.
[Archer] Oh, really?
Not even a scratch,
you say?
Let's see if I can make one,
then.
If that is not enough,
I will leave you to Saber.
[both grunting]
[blows landing]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[clattering]
[grunts]
[Caster] A very good try,
Archer.
[gasps]
[booming]
[Shirou grunts]
[grunts]
[groaning]
[Archer] Teleportation?
Ornate time control?
So within these walls you
are able to mimic true magic.
[gasps]
I'm impressed, Caster.
[Caster] And I think less
of you, Archer.
I thought you might be useful
to me,
but you are worse than Assassin.
I'm quite sorry to hear it.
If I get another chance,
I'll try not to disappoint you.
[grunts]
[gasps]
[both grunting]
[chuckles]
[grunts]
[booming]
[shouts]
[grunts]
Damn that witch.
She has a huge store
of mana to draw on
[grunts]
[groans]
You think you can escape
from here?
[grunts]
Damn, that idiot!
Oh, crap!
[scoffs]
[Shirou] Hey, put me down,
you jerk!
Huh?
[Shirou] What are you
thinking?
[scoffs]
Hell if I know.
When you say that,
your excessive stupidity hurts
my head, you idiot.
Idiot?
You know,
you're the idiot around here!
And you call me an idiot?
Well, that makes you even more
of an idiot, idiot!
[Archer] What are you,
a brat now?
I can no longer deal
with an idiot and brat like you.
At least decide on one,
numb skull!
[Shirou] What did you say to me?
[booming]
[grunts]
[shouting]
[Archer grunts]
Put me down, dammit!
I can handle this myself!
‐ All right.
‐ [Shirou grunts]
[groaning]
You son of a‐‐
[gasps]
[Caster] How does that feel,
Archer?
Even those heroes
of the three knight classes
cannot move if space itself
has been immobilized around
them.
[giggles]
So this would appear
to be checkmate.
I don't know which land's hero
you were,
but this is goodbye.
[gasps]
What was that you said, Archer?
If you wish to beg
for your life, I‐‐
Imbecile!
I said, "Dodge this,
Caster!"
[gasps]
[blow lands]
[grunts]
[snarls]
[both grunting]
Amazing.
I am the bone of my sword.
[groans]
Caladbolg!
[gasps]
[screams]
It seems that my master
could not defeat
the opponent as planned.
[Assassin] My own master
is in peril
so I no longer have the luxury
of concealing my true skill.
Even now you will not reveal
your noble phantasm?
[grunts]
Your master is a novice
so you must be counting
on the strength of his luck
to win.
Your faith is admirable.
Half‐hearted measures from me
will not put a dent in that.
[gasps]
However, that simply won't do.
You yield the advantage
of higher ground?
What are you playing at?
Although I may not
be well known,
I devoted my life
to the sword.
If you insist on not showing
your strength,
I'll take your belief
and break it open
with brute force.
[gasps]
Ultimate!
[booming]
[grunts]
Swallow reversal!
Too late!
[sparking]
[clattering]
[whimpering]
[gasps]
Archer, why?
Why do you not finish me off?
[gasps]
[Archer] I said I
would make one scratch.
[groaning]
[gasps]
[Caster] So you do not intend
to kill me, then?
[gasps]
My objective here was
to protect this boy from you.
My policy is to avoid
unnecessary fighting.
[gasps]
Hey!
[laughing]
[Caster] I see!
You and the boy must be birds
of a feather, then.
[both] Huh?
That boy cannot abide servants
like me who feed
on irrelevant people,
or that stray
from his naive sense
of morality,
and you simply do not care
for senseless slaughter.
You see?
You are completely alike!
How am I anything
like this stupid jerk?
Yes, I agree.
[Archer] I admit we
are both pacifists
but we are fundamentally
different
from each other.
You're a pacifist,
my ass!
[Shirou] I guess you must
have forgotten
how you tried to take out Saber
along with Berserker!
That was before you
and Rin entered into
this alliance.
[Archer] Surely
you don't expect me
to save everything I see
that might need saving.
[grunts]
If I thought that way,
even Berserker would be someone
to save.
[laughing]
I like you two.
Your powers and existences
are both unique and interesting.
‐ Huh?
‐ [Caster] Join forces with me.
I have a strategy that will put
an end
to this Grail War quickly.
No, never!
There's no way I'd ever work
with people like you.
[grunts]
[Shirou] Hey, Archer,
come on!
I'll pass.
Your team has very limited
fighting potential.
No matter how much power
you gain,
it won't be enough
to beat Berserker.
What you offer isn't enough
to ally myself with you.
I see.
Negotiations have broken down,
then?
Yes.
Besides, I decided to come here
on my own initiative.
My master did not send me
so I have no reason to kill you.
Shall we call this a draw
on account of injury?
Hey!
I'm surprised.
Your master has been
actively hunting me,
has she not?
Yet you would simply let me go
just like that?
Yes.
It it really no concern of mine
how many people
you end up killing here.
Oh!
What a terrible man you are.
Wait a minute!
Stop!
[gasps]
[Shirou] Why the hell
did you let Caster go?
Even if I had tried
to strike her down just now,
she would have made
her escape anyway.
To defeat Caster,
we must get to her master.
[Shirou shudders]
Yeah, but she's the one behind
all the people
in comas right now.
Until we stop her,
victims are gonna keep
piling up.
On the contrary,
I want to let her continue
for a while longer.
[gasps]
Caster will go on
draining people
of their life force
and will use that power
to defeat Berserker.
Then after she's done that,
we take Caster out.
Tohsaka would never agree
with that plan!
You're right.
She would hate it,
which is why I want Caster
to settle things quickly.
I don't know how many
will have to die,
but humans are mortal creatures,
after all.
[Archer] No matter how
or at who's hands death comes,
it's all the same.
‐ [Shirou grunts]
[grunts]
[gasps]
Very impressive.
You dodged well.
[grunts]
It is not all that special,
as tricks go.
It is simply something
I mastered one day
when I had the thought
to slay a sparrow.
[Assassin] A flying sparrow
cannot be snared by my sword
which is but a single line,
but with two
or three lines attacking,
that changes matters entirely.
However,
they are swift little things.
To accomplish the feat,
one must repeatedly strike
within time of a single breath.
That is beyond the ability
of ordinary men.
But I had nothing else
to do but to practice
and master the skill.
In other words,
I achieved a goal
I had wished for.
I used the technique
without knowing it.
[Saber] Repeatedly strike within
a single breath?
That is not what that was.
They were at exactly
the same time.
In that instant,
three swords existed.
It is hard to believe,
but that was...
A dimensional refraction effect.
How does a servant
with only sword skills get
a noble phantasm without
employing any magic at all?
Caster is a softie.
She should just go drain
their lives completely.
If everyone in the city
were to die,
it would be much easier
to fight.
[Shirou] Damn you!
[grunts]
[gasping]
I thought that you and I
were operating under
an alliance.
That's a load of crap!
I'm not doing that!
Like I would even think
of sacrificing the lives
of everyone around me in order
to achieve
some personal victory!
I feel exactly the same way,
Shirou Emiya,
but it's not possible
to save every last person.
If Caster were to get control
of the Grail,
the damage would not be limited
to this city.
If we don't win this war,
the damage
will affect everywhere.
[Archer] Therefore
the only choice
is to sacrifice the people
of the city.
If we can keep
the overall losses low
as a result,
it's the same as your strategy,
isn't it?
‐ [shudders]
Choosing to save someone means
choosing not to save another.
You've said you didn't want
to get irrelevant
people involved.
Then admit it.
If you try
to avoid killing anyone,
you won't save anyone
in the end.
[grunts]
Do you plan to go after Caster?
[Archer] To waste your life
after I saved it?
Bite me!
To hell with your help!
Even if you offered it now,
I wouldn't take it!
[Archer] Well, you not liking me
makes this easier.
[gasps]
[both grunting]
[grunts]
Archer.
[Shirou] Son of a‐‐
[grunts]
[Archer] If you've no will
to fight,
then die here and now.
[Shirou shuddering]
[Archer] Spending
your life fighting
for others and not yourself
is nothing but hypocrisy.
Peace is what your desire is,
not victory,
even though there's
no such thing in this world
and there never has been.
[wincing]
What did you say?
Goodbye, Shirou.
Let your ideals drag you
to your death.
[grunts]
[gasping]
[groans]
[Saber] Shirou!
[breathing heavily]
[Assassin] I guess
that damn vixen retreated.
Saber.
[grunts]
[Saber] Assassin, why did you
not strike me down just now?
I was captivated,
I suppose.
You are attractive
when you are fighting,
but your concern for your master
is an exquisite sight,
and so you caught my eyes.
That is enough fighting
for tonight.
You may both leave.
[Saber] So you
are letting us go?
[Assassin] I am indeed.
Finding a worthy opponent
is a rare thing.
I could not bring myself
to defeat you
if you were not in peak form.
Or do you consider this a debt,
Saber?
Yes, of course,
Kojirou Sasaki.
Please forgive me.
You are an opponent worthy
of my full attention.
[chuckles]
[Saber] Rest assured
I will settle matters with you.
Regardless of the outcome
of the Holy Grail War.
I swear it.
[both gasping]
[gasps]
[blow lands]
You would stand in my way,
samurai?
You took the words out
of my mouth.
I said that they may leave.
Will you make a liar of me?
My only duty is to stand watch
at this gate.
I allowed entry,
but leaving is something else.
[Assassin] Your head
lacks elegance,
but I shall satisfy myself
by claiming it tonight.
[Archer] You really think
you can defeat me,
Caster's lackey?
I could ask the same.
I let you win there in order
to give the vixen a bit
of a healthy scare,
so imagine my disappointment
to see you flee
for your own life.
[blows landing]
[both grunting]
[grunts]
[blow lands]
Let's leave while we can.
‐ [groans]
‐ [Saber] Hurry!
[groans]
[blows landing]
[Kalafina's "Believe"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[chorus singing
in foreign language]
♪♪ ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
I see.
Then Archer actually
allowed Caster to escape?
Yeah, can you believe it?
That guy is the worst.
A real son of a bitch.
If you ask me,
he's no better than Caster,
if he's willing
to exploit someone
like her to win.
[giggles]
Why are you smiling like that?
Because it is extremely rare
to hear you speak ill of someone
in that manner.
But Shirou,
aren't you angry at Archer
for breaking the alliance
and attacking you
like he did?
Wha‐‐
[exhales]
No, not at all.
It's Tohsaka I'm allies with,
not Archer.
So actually,
there was no alliance
for him to betray.
[chuckles]
You are amazing.
Quite amazing indeed.
Caster is an enemy
who must never run free,
but I do not believe
that Archer is nefarious.
Wait, hang on a second.
Didn't you hear
a single word I said?
The guy is no good!
[Saber] You saw it,
didn't you, Shirou?
His technique was as pure
as a clear stream.
His heart must be equally
as pure.
[scoffs]
He's really not that great
with a sword, you know.
The guy tried to attack me
from behind,
but failed to kill me.
Yes.
This means you have
an aptitude for it.
Given enough time and effort,
you should be able
to reach his level.
[grunting]
[grunts]
[Shirou] I've made up my mind.
Saber,
once I'm healed,
teach me how to use a sword.
Not as exercise,
but how to fight.
[gasps]
Yes.
If that is what you want,
Shirou.
[Shirou] That settles it, then.
I can't screw up again
like I did tonight,
and I can't make anything better
by running away all the time.
Most of all,
I can't lose to a bastard
who said he'd sacrifice
the lives of the few in order
to save the lives of the many.
[grunts]
[wincing]